Welcome back my students so I hope you guys are having a lot of fun.
I try to make this small as entertaining as possible.
I wish I wasn't music in the entrails right.
Well if any of you know about doing that like any music that you know I'd have put in videos it is like
to contact me let's talk.
I would be interested in finding I'll give him one of my students on chances in putting some videos
for me putting up some minerals.
But anyway so this is where we are right now we are creating this functionality here to detect the get
method in a forgot key.
And I think I'm missing something.
Let's see if this works like that.
Think
if we get this get or for Guy one of those I don't think this is the right logic.
Let me just check this out real quick.
Sometimes I'm doing this guys I remember I do not call it any of this.
Not in that portion of the time before recording.
So yeah that's not logic I don't know what I was thinking.
I think we should do the end here and the set here.
So yeah I like to do things naturally because you know we make a whole bunch of mistakes when we are
developing.
We break stuff and we fix it that's how it is.
So by seemy fixing stuff you learn more and you guys being with me all this time so you know.
But anyway so the next thing to do here we need to check the email right because we are made in this
email we want to make sure that the email exists in the database and I think I created in this course
a function fight on if I recall is call email is just there we go.
So its called Maylands is actually or email it is.
Yeah.
And we want to check the email database and the email address we just going to say well why don't you
tell me it does exist.
So let's go back and let's see
if it is just going to be copying this to my clipboard just because to been using this a lot.
As you can see it does exist.
See the echo right here.
Great.
So that function is working great.
We love that right.
It does help or Funches really help us minimize all that while we have to write we would have to write
a query to the database if it wasn't for this function.
So we know that it does exist.
You might want to use every prosimian that function if you like.
So I'm not going to do that now but you could turn this into a prepared statement.
So that way you don't have to do my ask you lie.
Again super easy.
We actually do this in one of our sections so that section of where we create a prepared statement.
I think it was for the posts for this year.
You can see that we are creating a prepare semi or super easy we're going to do that.
We've got one now.
But he's also information and BHB the Web site BHB prepared statements.
We might do that in the future.
I know I'm misspelling that but it's going to help me this works as an information to I like BHB that
Net Web site.
But we're going to be facing those functions and making this a little bit more
more secure as time goes by OK.
Always going to keep adding new lectures just to show you new things.
But if you go to I was just looking for a select statement so you could see as you can see this is selecting
the right here.
But anyway.
So let's actually create one right now.
So we have a function call mice you lie and this is just if we pair function is going to take that connection
that we have available.
It's going to actual variables right here under D-B that BHB remember that.
And then the second parameter here is going to be the query that we want.
We can pass a variable we can just write it here.
As a matter I am going to use double quotes because I'm going to put some curly brackets inside here
just that's just me.
You don't have to do that.
So they are users and we're going to set the code.
You know I can't pronounce this a lot of guys make sure that you have this column in the database.
OK.
I already added mine so you can see here.
Go to use a stable structure and super easy you guys know how to do that.
I want column soaking and make sure it is a tetes type that it's safe.
Super simple.
Anyway I think I already told you how to do that.
And I mean this is all you had to I tell you to add to the column not to actually create a column because
I've been telling you showing you how to do that well all this time.
Right.
Anyway so we're got to set this column to be
the one off they're variable and we're going to do it where it's they use their email equals what.
Well we prepare statements we just write that question mark there.
I actually put this a little bit there so you can see it better.
OK.
Let's use another function here.
This is my ask you a lie and we're going to bind the parameters and we're going to bind this statement
or whatever statement we got there.
Make sure that your statement actually we don't have that variable there we need to create as all we
can manage our connection better.
That's a..
I think it's a good name for it.
It's going to be a string whatever values are going to go into that question mark.
That's why the second parameter here is and the second parameter value which is that variable.
OK.
We are also going to execute this.
I think we can execute it already.
There's a whole bunch of functions that you can see that my idea is actually refilling for me.
We're going to pass the same thing every time into this function.
That's why we do.
And then we can of course close the connection and
it should be here right there.
And we passed the statement again.
Now you can put a statement in this to check for errors if you like.
Let's do it actually and
so if we are able to connect we're going to set these variables I don't know why I have that I'm getting
I'm writing a lot of a lot of code using Jason
in javascript and I'm putting semi-colons after the color brackets but anyway so let's go ahead now
and we can find out if something went wrong with the connection and we can echo this out.
Something
let's just put something small here.
OK let's let's see if this works.
First of all OK.
Right now we don't have a code on users actually we don't is empty
right there.
So let's see let's refresh a little bit and let's just make sure that your email is that you have an
email like this in a database and we are going to create that.
Now let's refresh and you can see that we have a code here.
OK so working what if something goes wrong and we have some type of errors.
And that table does not exist.
Courting
is that something went wrong one of these play more than that message or something.
You can do that.
You can use like see
my.
Just call my askew a lie.
You can.
I think you can do this if you like.
I think this will work with
because we have this connection very well somewhere connection.
There we go.
CORDONE fuckwit the it's going to copy to clipboard answer.
And as you can see we get that and I think they do have there is another I don't know.
This one would work.
Why think we need this a.p.
And I don't think that will be available by the time he gets down here.
I mean you see let's check it out.
Maybe that works.
There we go.
Issue more.
Well actually that one does not work because this very well never gets set with it right.
When you see something as well and yep so used it or the one that I showed you.
So anyway you could do that I feel like we already know that our queries actually updating so there
is no errors there.
OK.
Just to test things out.
So that goes right.
What else do we need to do well besides updating the database.
We need to actually send the e-mail right.
That's something that we need to do.
And for that I'm going to show you in the next elections is going to be pretty awesome so don't miss
it.
See you in the next lectures.